Hello, I'm Patrick!
I'm the engineering lead on the design system team
And today I would like to show you something we've added to our documentation site.
We need to have a chat about maturity.
...component, maturity, that is.
Some of you may be aware we have had a draft label on some components for ages.
Every once in a while we'd get asked, "What does draft mean?"
"Can I use this component?"
And honestly our team didn't know what it meant either.
It was introduced in an early version of the design system but we never had a clear path for moving out of it.
We didn't have a well defined set of criteria for what makes a component fully developed and ready for production.
It's been on our to do list for a very long time.
But this program increment we were able to set aside time to tackle this big question.
We established a checklist that helps us measure each components maturity through well defined and repeatable processes and we made a way to display that information on our dockside and that's what I'm going to demo now.
Okay, so here we are on the alert page of our dock site and you'll notice at the bottom we've added a component maturity section.
We've added this to all of our component pages here.
We have it broken down into three categories.
We're working on 1/4 for design but we're still auditing the sketchy like it and we want that information to be accurate before we release it.
So you'll notice that each of these items can either be complete, incomplete or not applicable in this case, this is an alert component.
It's not an interactive component.
So keyboard navigation isn't really applicable for more information about these items and the testing strategies, whether it was automated or manual testing that we use to mark these as complete or incomplete.
We have a link to that documentation right here, that's more detailed.
So I encourage you to read through all of these, read that documentation.
If you see a gap, if you see something that's incomplete and you think that your team could fill that gap, please consider contributing.
We love contributions so please reach out if you don't have time, that's okay.
This is not only a tool for you all to make informed decisions, but it's also a tool for us to be able to see where our gaps are and how we can prioritize our time to make our components more mature.
Thank you all for watching.